Coffee connoisseurs are always very particular 
about their coffee, especially the bean that has 
been used.

These connoisseurs also like to brew their 
own coffee every morning with the coffee 
bean that they have selected very particularly. 

They also spend time researching their coffee.

By clustering different coffee bean variants together, we can use this information for 
targeted marketing. 
If a customer buys a variant, other similar variants can be 
recommended to them.

The extracted dataset contains 44 columns, all containing different information about the 
coffee bean such as owner, country, company, farm name, etc.

Some of the data is numeric while some isn’t as visible in the previous slide. Therefore, 
data standardization will be performed. Also, normalization will be performed. 

Out of this, a few relevant attributes will be used for the clustering job

Out of these 44 attributes, we select the following relevant attributes:
Species, Variety, Processing Method, Aroma, Flavor, Aftertaste, Acidity, Body,
Balance, Uniformity, Clean Cup, Sweetness, Cupper Points, Moisture, Color,
altitude mean meters.

We prepare the data by first converting the non-numeric data into numeric. We do this by 
numbering the unique non-numeric data from 0 to x, where x is the number of unique 
records in each column.

For the algorithm to work effectively and get accurate results, we normalize the data.
Since the values of attributes range from a maximum of 2 in one column, to a maximum of 
190164 in another, we normalize the data to bring the range down to 0 to 1.

The only outliers present were in the altitude column. The values were 190164 meters, 
110000 meters, and 11000 meters (before normalization). We delete these values since the altitude 
of the highest peak in the world (Mt. Everest) is 8848.9 meters.
At this point, our data is ready for the clustering job.

The only outliers present were in the altitude column. The values were 190164 meters, 
110000 meters, and 11000 meters (before normalization). We delete these values since the altitude 
of the highest peak in the world (Mt. Everest) is 8848.9 meters.
At this point, our data is ready for the clustering job.

We will be using K-means for the clustering and use 'Weka' software package.

Determining the optimal number of clusters in a data set is a fundamental issue in 
partitioning clustering, such as k-means clustering, which requires the user to specify the 
number of clusters k to be generated.
There is no definite answer to this question. However, there are several methods that try to 
optimize the number of clusters required. We will be using elbow method. 

After succesful clustering, the centers of the clusters can be used to characterize the clusters. 
These properties are the predominant properties of the coffee beans in a given cluster.

We can interpret from the clustering result that a coffee bean that is high in Aroma, 
flavor, aftertaste, acidity, and grows at a higher altitude belongs to cluster 5.
Now, if any customer has bought a coffee bean in the past from this cluster and liked 
it, we can recommend them a different coffee bean from the same cluster and be 
confident that the customer will like this recommendation too. 

This is how targeted marketing works these days. 

This clustering recommendation can be implemented in online websites as well as 
local coffee shops. The customer gets recommendations on the website online or if 
they to a local coffee shop regularly, the barista at the coffee shop can access the 
customers past purchases and recommend a coffee bean accordingly by looking at 
the other coffee beans in the cluster.